>> Speaker 1: I remember you said
something yesterday about how
it's specific based on what library or
what framework you're using to, codes
blanks gets more complicated with say-
>> Sean Larkin: That's very true, yes.
>> Speaker 1: Are you gonna dive
into that all later or [INAUDIBLE].
>> Sean Larkin: I think it's fair for
me to show an example of what that means.
So yeah some, go ahead.
>> Speaker 1: [INAUDIBLE] more questions.
>> Sean Larkin: Okay, okay,
so you're absolutely right.
There are some frameworks
in some libraries that,
>> Sean Larkin: How do I say this?
Disregarded why Pack is
an important tool that people use.
And therefore,
missed the opportunity to make lazy
loading a first-class citizen for them.
And therefore, it's a painful experience
to have a performing application.
A great example of that is like Angular?
It takes about 14 files to
even lazy load something.
And they don't even support
component by component lazy loading.
You have to technically fake
a router outlet to even do it.
And so it's like,
when you don't respect the contextual
things like what are people
using as a bundler.
Or if you don't make code splitting
a first class citizen, you make it really
hard for your users to be able to create
performance web applications, right?
But on the other hand,
we have projects like,
I'll just open an example cuz I think
it's super important to showcase.
>> Sean Larkin: Let's see.
>> Sean Larkin: Where we have vue.js.
Where's that great example
that I used to have?
Let's look at my 30 card folders.
[NOISE]
>> Sean Larkin: Let's see,
vue demo I think is fine.
>> Sean Larkin: The most
beautiful thing about vue.js,
I'll just give a very quick context.
So long story short, to you, so
vue has a single file component system.
I'll even say that they decided to build
on Webpack as a platform when they created
their features.
Single file components are powered
by a Webpack loader, its viewloader.
And what they give is it
allows them write a single,
you get to write a single component style.
It's scoping data, and
it's templating in a single file.
The context is really nice.
If you wanna use one custom component
in another, you have to register it.
Now, to do so, you just import
it like it's module, right?
Because behind the scenes, the loader
converts all of this to ESM modules.
So, when I say code splitting
as a first class citizen.
I mean that well,
to register that component,
you'd import it and
then you take that imported reference.
And you just bind it here in components,
it's just a destructure Syntax.
So now that I've set this here, I'm able
to actually use this hello world component
as seen above in my custom template.
Does that make sense so far?
And, don't sweat too much
about the view syntax.
Just think about this is an API for
registering components, right?
So, when Evan, you created this, he said,
well not only can you take a component.
If I was to use an interface for
this and said, I like using interfaces
because now that I do some typing stuff,
it makes sense to me.
So if I said interface
RegisteredComponent,
what it means is,
it takes a instance of component or
like so the component's property here.
Takes a component, or
it takes a function that returns
a promise that resolves a component.
>> Sean Larkin: So what does that mean?
So it means that I literally
can comment this line,
uncomment this line,
as long as this is named the same thing.
Wow, I just code split this component.
With one line change, one line.
You just instantly made it possible for
this to be loaded asynchronously,
and what's the power?
Sean, why does that matter?
Well so for example, if this state here,
so if you wanted to bind state.
I don't even want,
please don't stress about
the syntax itself Let's
say some state is false.
And v, f is just like, it's very similar
to Angular JS directives, right?
And it complies down to render
functions like reactos.
So, if this is false,
this component never gets loaded, right?
Because what it's equal to is
a function that returns the promise.
So, when at runtime,
this State evaluates to true,
lets say some event changes it,
vue calls the function.
Which then go fetches the bundle
that has the component.
This is first class code splitting.
There is no other framework
today that does this.
And It's almost ironic
that another grassroots
organization that serves nothing but
its users, like Vue.
Has a really great integration with
another grassroots open source project
that serves nobody but
its users like Webpack.
So just something to think about when you
choose your technologies in the future.
Anyways, I'm biased, so I'm biased.
But yes, this is first class code
splitting, this is what excites me
because I see libraries and frameworks
from the future building on this.
This means that at any time you could
swap an app together with static imports.
And then go back one line at a time and
refactor everything to be high performing.
So this is first class code splitting.
There are other examples of
doing this in other libraries.
So if you're React,
there's React Loadable.
Loadable, it's made by Jamie Builds or
James Kyle or Jamie Kyle he goes by now.
And essentially what this does is,
now it's a little bit more boiler plate.
It's not a first class experience,
it's very close though.
Is that you can take and
just import loadable.
And then if you had like a loader icon or
a spinning icon,
it allows you to bind that as well.
But you create this component and
you can see here a function that
returns the dynamic import, right?
Of your react component
that you wanna lazy load.
And then all you have to do is
return that in your render function.
Does that make sense?
To people who know like jxx, they're like,
yeah this looks really clear.
To me I'm just like, and
like okay, [LAUGH] cool.
Yeah, so this is probably,
this is the only like really convenient
way I know how to do it with react.
So that's what I mean when say like
hopefully that answers the question,
I kinda rebuilding dot a little
sub box there for a moment.
But It's gonna differ for each library.
>> Speaker 1: Pretty concise.
So [INAUDIBLE] like in a spectrum
of ease vue by far the easiest to
[INAUDIBLE] [CROSSTALK].
>> Sean Larkin: By far.
>> Speaker 1: React
somewhere in the middle.
>> Sean Larkin: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Angular-
>> Sean Larkin: Is incredibly painful for
the component level.
I would say for
routing they have it pretty well.
But a lot of the times,
you can't just split at the route level.
You should be doing all
your terminal components.
Like what's super cool is in the future.
I see us having tools and
utilities that see like this is
the conditionally loaded component.
Behind the scenes, let's just convert
this to a dynamic import, right?
Hopefully, we see that, but
you're right, absolutely, vue by far.
And, there are,
like I'm trying to work with teams,
like PreAct and even Hyper App.
If you've ever seen Hyper App it's a tiny,
tiny version, smaller than PreAct.
But, they have a really cool API so
I've been trying to tell them, like hey.
Can you make first class code splitting?
And I'm trying to work with these
newer framework that look like they
could take off?
Because really,
this is like 11 lines of code in your
own internal library to handle, right?
All you have to say, is this,
is type of this a function?
Or is it a component instance?
If it's a type of function,
result of promise, right?